Hello everyone. Welcome to our Reinforcement Learning course.
This time, we are going to study yet another field of machine learning,
as the name suggests it's called reinforcement learning.
And since this field has grown very much entangled with other fields like deep learning,
and Bayesian methods of machine learning.
We want to try to draw a clear definition.
Instead let us begin with some kind of a
well a typical application case of reinforcement learning,
so that you'll get the general intuitive impression
of how it works, and what makes it tick.
So to begin with, we have this supervised learning problem formulation,
where you try to have a data set with objects and answers,
and you trying to approximate those answers,
find some function that maps your objects into answers.
You do so, usually by using some kind of algorithm,
either decision tree, or a linear model,
or unilateral or any other model that performs this task.
And you train this model to minimize a loss function,
a measure of kind of... a measure of quality,
the lower the loss function, the better the algorithm performs.
And for example, let's consider a problem of
banner ads click prediction, click for a prediction.
So you have features of your banner, say the topics.
The thing they tried to advertise,
and the features that some kind of context,
what kind of page did it appear,
or maybe the features of the user who appeared on this page.
And those are the features.
Now given those features you try to predict just one variable,
whether or not the user clicks on this banner or as other popular approach suggests,
the probability that the user will click on this banner or click for rate.
You can usually achieve this by employing one of the algorithms,
again, linear models, decision trees, neural networks, and
the loss function would be for classification problems say they crossentropy,
Or maybe hinge loss if you are a fan of support vector machines or similar things.
Another problems like traditional misfold by different loss functions of course,
but list this one for the time being.
Now the problem here is that you assume
that you have this kind of known large data set where you were for each banner,
and for each page,
for each user have the reference answer,
but in reality you don't have it.
So here's how much reinforcement learning problem,
instead of having a data sets you now have some kind
of practical kind of neo business application.
We don't have that data yet.
To be more discrete,
let's say that you have some kind of new hot startup at your disposal,
you've just got in charge of YouTube or Facebook or whatever,
and you have this need website that's a lot of users visit everyday
and for each users for each user that visits any of
your pages you get the chance to show him a banner that he will either click or not.
On the other side of the barricade you have banner ad providers.
Those are the companies that are going to pay you if you show their banner.
And if users click on their banners.
So you have this problem of picking what banner do you want to show,
but you cannot yet use supervised learning because you have no data set.
However, I more or less believe that by
this time you already know how to solve this or you can
devise some kind of solution how to get
some way or to apply supervised learning undertakings here.
So now I want you to think up how do you apply supervised learning?
How would you solve this case?
There's of course multiple ways you can do so,
and so the general approach the most popular solution seems to be the
following: You have a data driven approach.
You try to apply data driven approach without data.
So those things you have to do you have to generate some data.
You can do so by initializing with say around them strategy,
so you assign random banners you just show advertisements at random,
and then you see whether user clicks on this random banner or he doesn't.
And you record this into some kind of flagging system.
So once this system runs for say a day,
you'll get a lot of data containing clicks and non clicks,
mostly non clicks, because you know
the click through rate is usually a way below point 5.
And then you have this kind of
supervised learning problem formulated for you, you to have this data,
and you try to fit a model that predicts whether
a user that you have in that respect whether
a user will click on that banner that you've shown him.
Now, you have this model that is hopefully better than just random banner placement.
You can use this model say secure direction,
to improve how your system works,
so you go to the next iteration of this loop.
You now start to show banners based on the click through rate predicted by your system.
Since it is a duct tape approach,
it is probably going to work better than random,
but it still has a lot of problems that prevent it from being optimal all the cases.
So the first problem with this approach is that even though you can train them
well that predicts the probability of using clicking a banner,
it's not always a good idea to follow what it suggests.
Sometimes there are banners that get hyper use or have been clicked,
but that are detrimental to your popularity,
detrimental to your user base.
For example, you have the click pay banners which are as the name suggests
the banners that try to get clicked by all means available.
These can for example suggest that some kind of celebrity
died recently although this is false information,
and although if you're a trust for
a service users are going to click on those banners at first,
you'll eventually lose track of your users by showing those banners too frequently.
So what you get here as you will gain more kind of picture rate but
you'll use your user base and therefore your kind of total utility will decrease,
instead you can try to show content which is kind of more beneficial for your users,
and you can try to explicitly optimize the happiness of the users,
so that the users stay longer and your user based again increases you gain more trust.
So this is how you can ruin
your service by simply supplying the machine learning or trusting it too much.
So one more possible complication of this approach is
that unlike the usual supervised learning pipeline,
where you have a data you train,
then you deploy, then you freeze the model for eternity.
The problem here is that the situation constantly changes,
and you have to retrain your model
periodically authentically so that you can adjust this change.
This is of course well this is not unsolvable but it
may turn out to produce very well terrible results.
If you keep this thing unattended.
For example, lets see that you begin
this kind of free training loop a week before Christmas,
and since it's a week before Christmas
almost everyone will be obsessed with Christmas presents,
so your model on probably to show Christmas related matters.
Now what happens next is that while it
is most certainly learns to profit from this Christmas,
it will be able to raise huge click rates for something amount of time,
eventually the Christmas is going to be over,
and then your model will have to readjust.
But well counter intuitively it won't be able to.
The problem here is that you always train your model on the kinds of banners
that you produce of this... with this very modeled,
and if your model shows everyone banners about Christmas and Christmas only,
you won't have any data points for your show or
some other kinds of banners and they are clicks say more frequently.
So this is more or less a vicious circle.
You have a model which gets biased towards some particular artifact in the daytime,
and then the model gets trained to be even more
biased because it doesn't get any other kind of external data.
Now, again this might be a problem left unattended but I'm sure that you'll be able
to get some kind of heuristic solution to
this problem so that your model will readjust eventually.
Any ideas? So yes one popular approaches is
to say take your model and instead of trusting it 100% of the time,
you can flip a coin and if it turns out
has you pick the most well the most popular banner,
and if it turns out tails then you just show whatever random banner you have,
or maybe show the banner or which is in top 100,
but you pick this banner uniformly.
So we have just devised a duct tape based solution
to our learning by trial and error problem.
And this proves that if you have enough duct tape you can fix
any problem regardless of how complicated it is.
The only issue here is that there are probably well definitely more complications,
more hidden issues that will arise if
you deploy this problem to your particular production environment.
And the only way you can solve them so far,
is by actually observing well losing money by deploying an imperfect solution,
and trying to develop some kind of fix asap.
Instead let's try to view this from a more scientific angle.
This is where we need the domain of reinforcement learning.
So basically, if we to summarize it in one sentence, it would be,
a formal kind of science that studies the problem of learning by trial and error.
So if a supervised learning is how you learn by having lot of examples, so for example,
this is how you get the higher education in the low,
reinforcements learning is how you learn to ride a bicycle.
You don't just read a book where you have
1000 training samples of how do you have to
behave when you're riding a bicycle in every possible situation.
You just take a bicycles you well you try to ride it,
you probably fail for the first half dozen times.
You probably hurt yourself, but from hurting yourself you actually learn,
and you eventually get better and better by simply
trying better approaches and adjusting to how the mechanics operate.